>> Erik Reinert: So
here's what we're building.
As you could tell, the workflow
has kind of slowly grown more and
more as we've moved.
Can anyone tell me what is
different that stands out to you?
>> Speaker 2: Got a load balancer.
Cdn.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, CDN, yep.
>> Speaker 2: RDS?
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, RDS, yep.
>> Speaker 2: And, well,
ECS instead of App Runner.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep, exactly, yeah.
So, yeah, we've kind of gutted most
of the pipeline and changed it.
But you'll notice that we don't
necessarily always change
everything that's purposeful.
We don't want to change everything
at once because then that just
massively disrupts productivity.
But what you might notice, based off
of our phases and what we've done,
we've basically done first
phase infrastructure,
second phase developer,
third phase infrastructure, right?
And so we're able to do these pivots
where it's kind of like roadwork in
the middle of the night.
We're kind of pivoting around
the developers as they're working so
that everybody can still be productive,
right?
And so on the right, we still have GitHub,
we still have GitHub Actions,
we even still have the whole
deployment process.
That's a big part of why
we separate these things.
Because when we separate these things, we
can work over here and be a more seamless
experience to the developers while the
developers keep working, shipping code and
stuff like that.
So in this scenario, for example, what we
could do is all of this work here could be
done in a branch while developers
are still shipping to App Runner.
Then the moment when we're
ready to ship over to ecs,
we just merged that branch and
now we're shipping to ECS instead.
So it's a much more seamless
experience as well.
So being aware of where you're making
these changes is definitely helpful again,
to the impact of the productivity
of everyone else around you.
Another thing to note is just that from
a client and a developer perspective,
this should be seamless.
So I should be able to move the entire
platform from App Runner to ECS without
having any downtime, having any concerns
about downtime or anything like that.
It's just something to note that
these changes we should be able
to make in a way that doesn't impact
anybody and we can make them efficiently.
But yeah, we have added a few things.
The first thing we added is a cdn.
So we are gonna be using
Cloudfront as our main CDN.
Again, we're trying to stay on Amazon as
much as possible possible because that's
where we're probably going
to get the biggest wins.
And so
Cloudfront is a pretty good solution.
Just a normal cdn, it's got
distribution all over the world, so
it helps really well with like normal
static assets and things like that.
What's also really nice about
it is because it's Amazon,
it has deep integrations with
all of its other services.
And so one of the reasons why we're
doing a CDN is because we don't
want to make our cluster
directly accessible.
Like, we're trying to make it in a way
where it's also like future proof.
We don't want anyone to
be able to like DDoS,
our load balancer or
anything like that, right?
And so what we're actually able to do
is we're able to create a AWS ALB and
create that in a private subnet.
And so we can use our CDN as our front end
to deliver all of our main content and
APIs and everything, but
then have a private load balancer
internally if we want to, I don't know,
pull, put a VPN in place and
then make it so that developers
can use the load balancer locally,
but then go through the CDN for
production.
Or if we want other services
to communicate internally,
they can communicate via that
load balancer, things like that.
And so, yeah, the nice thing about it all
being on Amazon is that Cloudfront can
point directly to that private load
balancer because they're in accessible
networks and stuff like that.
Once we have that load balancer set up,
we are going to set up ECS as well, right?
And so ECs, how many of you have
used ECS before or know about it?
Okay, got a couple.
Okay, so CloudFront being the CDN, AWS,
ALB being the load balancer,
ECS is the container Orchestrator.
That's where basically all
the containers are ranked.
It is.
I don't know if I would say
it's a Kubernetes competitor.
I would say Kubernetes is
much better than it, but
it does a really good job
at running containers.
If you just wanna run containers,
get them up in the cloud and
you want a little bit more customization
around the container, basically you
want more than App Runner, ECS is probably
going to be your final destination.
You can go EKS if you want,
which is elastic, Kubernetes, clusters or
something like that, but
then you're in a whole different world.
So if you don't, Basically, I would say
the steps are if you just want to get
your app out really quick,
you don't Care about anything.
App Runner's probably your best solution
if you're looking for more scale,
more customization, things like that.
ECS is probably where you'll be.
But then if you want to have a unified
platform that can move anywhere and blah,
blah, blah, that's when
Kubernetes will come into play.
So that would be like my scaling
of where you kinda would go.
We're purposely not going to Kubernetes.
You don't need it, man.
You just don't need it.
Most of the times, you just don't need it.
My company runs on ecs.
We do a fantastic job of running on it.
I'm not saying that my company
couldn't benefit from it, but
I am saying that there's a lot of
effort that takes to get there and
you have to make that cost value.
Is it worth doing that?
Is it not?
And that's totally up
to your organization.
But most of the time, ECS or something
like it can take care of it pretty well.
The other thing we did change,
as you might have noticed,
is we also did add RDs.
And you might be wondering, well,
okay, we had Supabase before, why rds?
Now it's that same thing.
Now we want to be able to customize,
manage the database
a little bit more directly.
We want to have more control over it.
And another big thing is we want
that database to be private.
We want it to be completely isolated.
And because we are now fully on Amazon and
in that world,
we can use what's called a VPC or
a virtual private Cloud.
At the end of the day, if you were
wondering, what does that actually mean,
it just means a private network in
Amazon that you have access to,
you can provision your instances to,
and you have complete control over.
So this really does become
a lot about ownership.
I want to start owning
the resources that I run and
I don't want others to be
maintaining them for me.
Just as a kind of a comparison
to stage one or phase one,
you could see it's a lot more ownership,
[LAUGH] right?
It's a lot more.
And how many people do you think it
would take minimal to manage something
like this?
Just curious, when you look at this,
how many devs do you think it would take
to manage all of this infrastructure.
>> Speaker 2: You need like a DBA for
sure.
Probably.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I would say so.
Otherwise it would be very painful.
>> Speaker 2: And then probably
solid DevOps, platform engineer,
whatever you want to call them.
>> Erik Reinert: Let's put it this way,
if you only had one,
they would be cranky,
quite Often so you could have one.
I've done this as well.
I was at a medium sized company where
I was really the only DevOps guy.
I was on a 10 man team and I hated it
[LAUGH] mostly because I was the only guy.
I was the only point for everything.
And when you have this much
complexity that is just overwhelming,
it becomes very overwhelming.
And I stayed there for like three and
a half, four years building, you know,
everything with them.
But that was a big reason why I ended up
leaving was, is because I was just like,
I'm the only person doing this.
Like, it's just too stressful.
I want to be.
There's like, there's benefits
to being at a small company and
then there's also benefits to being
a cog in a much bigger wheel.
I personally like the COG approach because
there's a lot more room, there's a lot
more flexibility, there's a lot more
things that you can do like this, right?
And so it gives a lot more opportunity for
learning, I think.
Whereas when you're at a startup
you'll learn a lot, but
it's gonna be like through the MUD
approach, you know what I mean?
Whereas if you're at a larger company, you
might be able to kind of like take a step
back and like have a mentor or
somebody else who can kind of guide you.
Yeah, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I had a couple questions so
for on rds and
I guess this applies to Supabase as well.
But I'm just curious like,
is there any risks as far as like
the developers running their
container locally with postgres and
then it being like slightly
different in the postgres instance,
behaving slightly different in Supabase or
RDS and
things aren't perfectly one to one.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Is that a thing, or?
>> Erik Reinert: So
absolutely, yeah, 100%, yeah.
That's a great question.
So if you are in a scenario like
that where database parameters
are very important, right,
which normally they are, right?
You would more than likely want to
run your own RDS for starters, right?
Mostly because-
>> Speaker 2: Like as a developer.
>> Erik Reinert: Sorry.
>> Speaker 2: Like you would wanna run.
>> Erik Reinert: No, no, no, no,
sorry, I mean as an organization,
like if you were gonna be
deploying stuff into the cloud,
you'd probably wanna pick more
of an RDS than a Supabase.
RDS has direct access to
your parameter groups and
every option that postgres
directly gives you.
So for example, if locally, I don't know,
you needed to increase your shared
connection count or some other weird
obscure postgres setting, you might
get that with supabase, but there is
a solid chance that they're not going to
expose those direct settings for you.
But if you go the RDS route, you can
match your local developer settings or
container settings one to one
to your deployment settings.
And that is actually what
we do at my job as well.
There are a few settings that we
need because of our indexes and
how much data we load into dev.
Even we have a parameter group in
Amazon that when the service starts,
it sets those settings so
that they match one to one.
The other side of it is, okay,
well then how do you make sure that all
the developers are in
sync with the database?
I actually talk about
this in my first course,
which is there are ways of
solving that with automation.
What we do and what I've adapted to
now because of what I do at my job,
is we use templates for
all the repositories.
So, for example, the Docker compose file
isn't something the developer creates,
it's something DevOps gives them and
says, here's your Docker compose file,
it's in your repo.
And then we own that file,
like in GitHub, under code owners,
we own all of those files.
And so at any time we can go in and
change them, update them,
make sure they're in sync.
And so that's a part of scale is
like being able to work around
the people while they're working, right?
So everyone in my company kind of
expects anybody in DevOps to go
into their repo at any time and
make a change and just be like, hey,
the expectation from us is then to make
it in a way where it's not impactful.
We go into the repo, we make changes,
we double check it, triple check it,
make sure everything's working.
And then we go, okay,
we've deployed this new postgres version.
You guys all have PRs now open.
Please merge them in when you can.
And then now we've all moved to either
a new parameter or a new version.
We're actually in the process
right now of doing that with node,
we're on 18 and
we want to get to 22, I think.
Yeah, and so we're gonna be doing that.
We're going to basically be generating.
We don't manage the package JSON,
but we manage the dockerfile.
So we upgrade all the versions of Node in
the Docker files and then we say, okay,
all of your Docker files
have been updated.
Please merge them in.
Pipelines are green.
If not, please fix and then merge in so
it's a bit of a dance.
Just to get the technology is one thing,
but
then figuring out how to have
that dance of like, okay,
let's make sure everybody's in sync is
a completely separate challenge than that.
So, from the tech side, RDS would
probably give you the ability to do that.
Basically, we're going to be replacing
Supabase, we're going to be using rds,
we're going to be keeping ecr.
Again, we have no need to move that.
And what's also nice about this is we
would not impact our current deployments
to App Runner,
even because we're not getting.
Even though we're using rds, it doesn't
mean we have to delete the post or
the Supabase instance right away.
There could be a cost there where it's
just like, okay, we'll keep Supabase
up until everything's ready to go and
then we'll just switch over, right?
That means that deployments can keep
running, and I highly encourage that.
This phase and going into this phase,
and the reason why I'm talking so
much is just because I want you guys to
understand that you can go through this
phase without making everybody mad at you.
I've done it, I've gone through it,
but it takes a lot of planning and
consideration of what everything that
you're touching and what are those
points to the developers and how it
could impact them and stuff like that.
So, yeah, in this case, technically,
it does mean everything from
phase two could stay online.
You'd be fully able to keep doing that,
and
then you could just
basically flip a switch and
then you'd go over to deploying directly
to ECS and your database, all that stuff.
The only thing I would say you may
have is you would have to do a data
migration, right?
You'd have to figure out a way to get all
of your data out of Supabase and into rds.
And you might need like, one night of
maintenance where it's low traffic and
you can do that, but outside of that,
it should be a completely online,
seamless migration.